The paper simulates storm surge using a regional ocean model in the Strait of Georgia. It finds that the storm surge in the study region is dominated by sea level conditions specified at the open boundary due to the response of the NE Pacific to the large-scale atmospheric forcing, which however is not new as pointed out in the paper. It also shows that the local atmospheric forcing plays a minor role overall, though does to some degree affect spatial surge variation. Improving storm surge forecasting is an important topic for this region. But the work presented in this study is rather preliminary, with little new science. There are a number of major issues to be addressed. 


Reviewer: 3

Major comments:

1. The two open boundaries that connect to the Pacific are far away from the two tide-gauge stations (Tofino, Port Hardy). But the paper does not provide convincing justification for using observations at the two stations as the open boundary conditions. It does not discuss any consequence of such an approximation either. Given that the results are dominated by the open boundary forcing, I think this issue must be addressed sufficiently.

Related to referee 1 comments. Can we argue that the remote forcing is large scale the the distance from the boundary is unimportant. Maybe some kind of image comparing NB and Tofino in a time series?


2. A potential option is to expand the present model domain to include some shelf areas and to take open boundary conditions from output of a large-scale (e.g. the NE Pacific) model.
We're not doing this.

3. The description of the model runs is not clear. The paper does not indicate the tides presented are from which model runs. How many constituents are included in the tidal analysis? For storm surge forecasts, how do you remove tides?
Hmm, maybe this was missed by the referee. In any case, I should review this section and clarify. 

4. For the validation of storm surge models it is important to show the peak surge and phase differences in detail. From the two examples shown, one has about 6 hour delay (Fig. 3) and the other has a 30% underestimation of the peak surge (Fig. 7) at all stations shown. Even with the broad peak surge, such large phase delay is quite unusual to me. Is there any issue with the specification of the open boundary conditions? How much delay could be due to the open boundary forcing?

Agreed, and this comment is in line with a comment by referee 1. Can add peak and timing to table. 

5. Inclusion of stratification is pointed out as a step forward compared with the previous modelling effort for this region. However, the effect of stratification on storm surge (if any) is not examined or even mentioned at all. 

Maybe include a stratification run. Look close at Ma at al 2015 paper first. This might even be a good future paper.. stratification and propagation of surge along SJdF. 


Other issues:

Page 3, Line 31-38: There is a recent paper on simulating storm surge off Eastern Newfoundland surge with stratification (Ma et al., 2015, JGR-oceans). The paper is highly relevant to your study.

Will look up

Page 19, Line 26-37: Is the finding of Murty et al. (1995) on the IB contribution wrong? From your model, the ocean’s response in the study domain is not IB. 
No, I think it comes down to that we are including large scale IB at open boundary forcing. Local IB is unimportant. 

Page 21, Line 45: Where is Neah Bay exactly?
Will add to map.
